[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello.
Welcome to "The
World of Wisdom."
My name is Linda
Rachel, and today we
are exploring the
world of wisdom
with a wonderful author and
lecturer, renowned speaker who
talks to people about
the importance of having
vision and living from
vision, Ilona Selke.
Ilona, thank you for joining us.
>> Nice to meet you, Linda.
>> Today I'd like to talk to you
a little bit about the Living
From Vision course, and also
to talk to you about some
of the wonderful
adventures that you've had.
Your life is such a
storybook of adventures,
as you've done
research with dolphins
and have used that
information to help humankind.
It sounds that you have done
a wonderful work already
with your life.
>> Yes, I feel the same way.
I feel very lucky.
What I discovered is that--
when I was studying philosophy
is that the answers
don't necessarily
lie in the rational mind.
We can discuss ourselves
silly about what is truth,
and where is it, and is
there anything such as truth.
But the truth lies within.
>> All right.
So whenever we are
looking for truth,
sometimes we are always
looking outside of ourselves
or to someone else to give
us the truth, or to a book,
or to a lecture.
But you're saying that much
of that wisdom is within us?
>> Correct.
A person, a book, a
lecturer, a teacher
can help us discover ways
of accessing inner wisdom.
I can teach tools.
And what I like
the most is seeing
that when people have used
the tools, they get results.
And so I, with my partner,
Dan Paris, developed courses,
and we teach seminars.
And amongst them, we co-created
some with Dr. Rod Newton
called The Living
From Vision Course.
It gives tools, but
the wisdom is within.
>> Right.
>> So if you read a great book
that's uplifting and tells you,
look at beauty around you, like
the "Celestine Prophecies,"
or like I write about in
my book of be grateful--
think of three things that
you're grateful for every night
you go to sleep.
That's actually one of the
exercises in the Living
From Vision class.
If alone you do
that every night,
you already feel much better.
And the wisdom is
something that's
different for each person.
We're not all the same in terms
of ability on this planet.
Some of us are in
the first grade.
Some of us are graduating.
Some of us have a doctorate.
And depending on where our level
is, it's perfectly all right.
Because in the view of
the one, the creator,
there isn't really a
difference in value.
In your book, "Journey to
the Center of Creation,"
I'd like to quote something
that you had in there
I thought was very interesting.
You said, we are creating our
own realities all the time,
consciously or
unconsciously, and we
can learn to become increasingly
a mirror of beauty and of love.
And it also says that we are
angels in training on Earth.
I really liked that.
What do you mean by that?
>> Angels in training is
truly what I believe we are.
If we don't think we're
an angel in training,
we at least know that we're
here to better ourselves
in some way.
Are you honest?
Are you honest when a clerk
under-charges you by $100?
They may have to pay
that out of their pocket.
Are you willing to be
honest down to $10?
How about down to $1?
It's those little virtues that
we develop our ability to love,
to care for another,
to develop compassion,
to develop listening
to that inner nudge
more and more often.
That's what I call
the angel in training.
And if being an angel is
too far-fetched for you,
then you can be a
human in training,
a great human in training.
I remember how I learned
my inner voice listening is
through cooking rice.
I boiled rice, and then
suddenly, I got this feeling.
The rice is done.
You better go check now.
And invariably, the rice
was done right then.
And if I had waited longer,
it would have gotten burned.
So I learned to listen
to that inner voice.
and I learned to check whether
it was right on or not.
And in the courses
that we teach,
we teach methods on how to
access that inner voice,
how to learn to listen to it.
Because it's good.
How am I going to
hear that voice?
I don't hear a thing.
It's a skill.
It's just like a
skill like anything,
like playing on computer
games with computer games,
or writing on a computer,
or playing piano.
We can develop our inner skills.
>> And you are a musician
as well as an author.
And through music, many times we
explore and can express things
that we feel inside
that we couldn't express
with words particularly.
So do you think that also
this inner voice that we have,
maybe it's the composer
within us, whether it's music
or it's intuitive
thoughts that are coming?
Do you think maybe we've blocked
some of these inner voices,
and that's why we
don't hear them?
>> I love that concept.
Thank you very much for
asking that question.
I do really believe that our
culture in the Western world
has done everything
to squelch that voice.
Children are taught
not to visualize, not
to daydream because we know
that the only world out there
is the three-dimensional world.
And granted, we build nice
houses with that ability.
We're very good calculators, and
we get spaceships to the moon.
But what it doesn't teach us is
how to truly love and connect
with another and how to make
our magical dreams come true.
Well, I have heard that--
we know about virtual reality.
And kids are really involved
in that sort of thing.
They've even discussed having
virtual reality theme parks,
like with dolphins,
or that they're
living in this world
which seems imaginary,
but yet it's not connected
to self in some way.
How do you feel about that?
>> It addresses the basic
need of our brain to be active
inwardly.
People watch TV all the time to
supply the brain with images.
If we go to a theme park, what
we're going to experience,
even if we have the most
sophisticated product,
is a hookup that simulates to
our brain only on five senses,
only to our five senses.
A virtual reality experience
cannot address the higher
senses, the sixth
sense or the intuition.
If I am in a theme
park making love
with this imaginary
partner I might
make up all to my
own liking, I'm
going to only
experience the input
that my body would receive.
Maybe my brain would kick
out certain chemicals,
but I would not feel the
love and the connectedness.
And what I've
developed in teaching--
and some of it is on connecting
with other people in the higher
dimensions--
is that when we
do that, we truly
feel like we're more nourished
than when we actually
have physical sensations
such as pleasure.
Now, combine the two,
and you've got a winner.
Now, in a virtual
reality experience,
even if it is with a
dolphin or another human,
if we get a
five-dimensional input,
our kids are going to learn
that our reality exists out
of five dimensions and five
senses only, three dimensions.
What we fail to
teach our children,
which all the old cultures
have always taught,
is that the truth is the
90% that you can't see.
It's the telepathy.
It's the traveling
into other places
where, if you make a change at
the blueprint level of reality,
you will see changes
in the physical world.
But if we as humans
don't learn to travel
to the fifth dimension,
to the blueprint level,
we will only be as effective
as our body can be.
We can have machinery.
We can have a very powerful
effect on the physical world
in a very limited space.
But we can not
reach the creation.
And I'd love to tell you a story
on that that is very magical.
>> All right.
>> Almost unbelievable.
But it explains how creating a
change in that blueprint level
makes the physical world change.
My partner and I were
driving in Germany
riding on the train, ready
to see a friend in Stuttgart.
And he is a musician as well,
and a classical musician.
Had a rehearsal that day.
And all I knew was a time
and a place to meet him.
We didn't have his address.
He was just moving.
We didn't have a phone number.
We had made out a time to meet.
By the time we left,
our train had delayed.
In Germany, trains
always are on time.
Everybody knows that.
So I didn't calculate
that at all.
By the time we'd
reached halfway point,
all the clocks at
the railway station
pointed the delay out
to me ever so clearly.
And I got frustrated.
I got very anxious.
If we weren't going to meet
my friend that I hadn't seen
for a year at this place under
the big clock in Stuttgart,
we weren't going to meet him.
He had an hour time
period to meet with us,
and then he was going
to show us where to go.
So I'm sitting in the train.
I'm very angry
with the situation.
I'm very frustrated.
And I said, well, you know,
that Living From Vision course,
there is this part
in there that's
called Learning From Problems.
Maybe I should just use that.
So I communicated with
that feeling of anger.
You know how we usually
have that in our stomach?
I took it out, imagined
it as a red fireball.
And I said, OK, what
do you really want?
Well, first it said,
well, I'll make sure
that everything works right.
And by the way, what I really
want is I want to be on time
and meet our friend.
And I said, well, that's great.
How would that look like?
That's the next step
you're supposed to say.
And it said, well,
it would be great.
We'd be having fireworks,
seeing each other.
Well, I felt the firework, I
saw the firework, and I said,
thank you, dear red fireball.
I really appreciate your help.
OK.
Let's ask you to
become this new image.
And so it's helpful.
It says, sure,
that's what I want.
I'll become that image anytime.
So we take the old
energy after being
grateful for trying to create
a result for me that I really
wanted.
And I've got the image
fulfilled-- fireworks
of meeting our friend.
And we sit in
there, and the clock
keeps showing that we're late.
And as we arrive, we're on a
different caye, and we get off.
We walk to the big clock.
Don looks around and says,
well, maybe he's here.
Maybe he waited.
All of a sudden, our
friend says, Don, Ilona!
How did you make it early?
We looked at the big
clock, and my jaw dropped.
We have come 15 minutes early
despite all the clocks showing
me that we were late.
It was in the month of August.
We didn't have summer--
the daylight saving time yet.
And we had a miracle.
>> It is a miracle.
We'll be right back and talk
to you a little bit more
about miracles in our lives
and the reality of them.
>> Hello.
I'm Linda Rachel, and this
is the "World of Wisdom."
Today we have as, our
special guest, Ilona--
author, musician, visionary.
And she's here to tell us about
some of the wonderful things
that she's learned about
envisioning peace and joy
and love among the
hearts of the human race.
Thank you, Ilona
Selke, for joining us.
>> You're welcome.
Thank you very
much for having us.
>> I'd like for us to explore
maybe some ways of showing
people how this visionary
technique and imaging can
really help them in
their everyday lives,
especially with
their own problems.
>> Yeah.
I can think of a problem
that I experienced
that had to do with
a mother and a child.
It happened to be my
sister and my niece.
We were visiting in Germany,
and we were on vacation.
One morning she woke up terribly
disturbed, very withdrawn,
wouldn't talk.
We couldn't figure
out what was wrong.
We didn't know what was wrong.
She wouldn't come and sit
with us to eat breakfast.
She was refusing.
We were ready to go sled
riding in the mountains.
This was in Austria in the Alps.
And she was just out of it.
So she was hiding behind
the curtain by the window,
wrapping herself in the cloth,
and just refusing to talk,
just even letting us
know what was wrong.
So I came up to her, and
I remembered the processes
that we teach ourselves, the
Living From Vision processes.
And I thought, if I can
communicate with her
in some ways, maybe I can help
her deal with whatever feeling
she has, whatever blockage
or frustration she has.
My sister, on the other hand, at
first was going, talk with us,
sit down, do this, do that.
But that wasn't
getting her anywhere.
So I came up to
her, and I said--
I imitated her body
language, which
is a form of making a rapport.
So I played shy.
Finally I found out that
she'd had a bad dream,
and she dreamed of a monster.
And the monster scared her.
And she was going--
her parents were going
through a divorce at the time.
So here was this
child in divorce
situation, terrified
of a monster
that was going come and eat her.
And she wasn't that age.
So I said, well, how
big is that monster?
And I had her do that
visualization process,
the same one I did with
a miracle about time
jumping with the train
ride, had her visualize it
outside of herself,
which gives her a chance
to be separate from
the feeling, but she
can communicate with it.
So then when she
communicated with it,
it told her that it wanted to
make sure that she was safe.
The deepest intent
of that monster
was to make sure
she was powerful.
Of course it wanted
to at first just
devour her and be powerful.
The way it looked is like,
what do you want, monster?
Well, I want to eat everybody
up and just be really big.
And what do you
really want, monster?
And the monster
said, well, I want
to be really big, I want
to really be powerful,
which was her part that
wanted to really feel
empowered in this situation.
So I said, how would that
look like if you were already
really powerful?
And she said, well,
I'd be-- and she'd
make up this super powerful
luminous angel image.
And we said, well, can
you thank your monster
for really wanting to
make you this powerful?
And we had the monster
become part of the angel,
because that's what the monster
really wanted to become,
is very powerful.
So now she had this big,
luminous angel there,
this part of herself
externalized in an image.
And so we had her
continue talking
with it in a couple
more steps, like does it
have a task for you?
Does it want you
to do something?
And so the angel gave
her specific ideas
of what the angel
wanted her to do.
And she came out of herself
feeling this radiance of being
this powerful being herself.
Because it is part of
her own mind, right?
So she sat down at
the breakfast table,
and we went on sled riding
through the mountains
in the Alps.
And it was a beautiful
day, and she felt glowing.
And that same day, I had
her sit quietly by a stream
and say, now, if you could
imagine that this dream had
a voice, and if you
could feel like you
were one with this stream,
what would this stream say?
And she closed her
eyes, and she listened.
And she said, it said not to
throw garbage in the stream.
That's the power
of our intuition.
And children are so
much closer still.
And if we can encourage
that with them, we
can help them through problems,
help them become more powerful.
I teach it in Germany.
We have quotes from
children in Germany
who have these imaginary beings,
Einstein and fairies, that
tell them answers
to school problems.
I've written a children's book
where one of the children that
wrote me a letter said,
I get grades of A.
All I do is visualize that
I'm getting a 1-- in Germany,
it's an A--
and I have this
imaginary, wise being
that tells me the answers.
And I don't feel afraid
in front of tests anymore,
and I get these great grades.
Thank you very much
for writing your book.
>> So a lot of times, we do
feel alone with our problems--
and not just children,
but adults as well.
So what you're saying
is that if we can
take a problem, for example--
and we have the expression then
we'll say it's eating at us.
It's like we've internalized
it, and it stays within us.
And you're saying, if we
can imagine that problem
outside of ourself, even
in the form of some image,
that we are able to
work through what it is.
What is the bottom of this?
Why is it feeling this way?
And it separates from us.
And being unattached, we
are able to deal with it.
>> Exactly.
And in the course,
Living From Vision,
we have various tools of
how to address problems.
One of the ways,
like you said, is
talk to them, like the
proverbial pain in the neck,
or the frog in the throat,
or the pressure on the chest,
or the clamp down feelings.
Those are all feelings that
we usually try to push away,
even when we are
in a relationship.
And if we bring them out,
communicate with them,
and we can get to the
bottom of it, we discover.
And this is the gift that I
find we can discover as humans--
is that everything, no matter
how negative it appears,
has a positive intent.
>> So even a pain or
a problem, in ways,
is an opportunity for
experiencing life more fully?
>> Exactly.
>> By going through it.
>> Yes, by communicating
with it and saying,
what did you really want?
And what you do is
really, you jump time.
Normally we would
get there eventually.
But this way, you
say, how would it look
like if you were already there?
And that is the particular
method of manifesting dreams.
What would it feel like, and
what image would represent
that feeling fulfilled?
It usually is a symbolic
image, like a rainbow,
jumping person, butterflies,
a flower, a sunflower,
whatever it may be, an image
that represents the feeling
fulfilled.
And you have to go within
and listen to that feeling.
How would a wonderful
relationship with my spouse
feel like?
And I may get this
glowing feeling of warmth
in my heart imagining
the very thing I want.
And my image for
that may be a fire
in the stove that I'm
watching, or a glowing sunset,
or palms blowing in the
breeze, two together.
And that image represents
my feeling fulfilled.
And if I can hold that, I can
create the reality I want.
The course, Living From
Vision, is about that.
It is also about learning
to create imaginary advisors
and listen to them.
I have advisors for
eating the right food.
A leaf of salad tells
me, no, Ilona, I
don't think you better
not order this one.
I think this one
looks really good.
Or an advisor--
>> So these are inner voices
that you pay attention to.
And you're saying
that we all have
these inner voices within us?
>> Yes.
And I would go as far as to
say that we not only have
these voices within us, but
that they are dimensional,
other dimensional helpers.
At times if I imagine-- if I
put a face to an archangel,
Archangel Michael,
and I say, what
is it that I need to learn,
it's a different answer
than if I say, salad leaf, what
do you think I need to eat?
It could be explained away
as simply a representation
of a higher knowledge
that's hidden within me.
But I truly believe
that we actually
have a world that
is almost vaster,
way faster than
our physical world.
And it is tapping
that dimension that we
need to learn as people
in the Western world.
>> If you could just tell me,
maybe in a sentence or two,
what your message would be to
the world of how it is that we
can see into the hearts
and souls of each other,
what would it be?
>> Wake up to the dimension
beyond the physical world
and listen to your
inner higher self,
to the guidance that is
beyond your higher self,
which eventually leads us
home to the source, to God,
like you just put it.
>> Great.
Thank you so much.
We've just begun to tap things.
Thank you very much for
coming in and joining us.
>> You're welcome.
Thank you very
much for having me.
[MUSIC PLAYING]